>What data types do each of these values represent?

"A Clockwork Orange"
42
09/02/1945
98.7
$15.99

1. String
2. Integer
3. Date
4. Float
5. Function

>Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used

A:

A database would be used when data needs to be stored for later use in a program. A text
file can store information as well, but if more than one person was manipulating data stored
in the text file at once, then they would overwrite each other. A database prevents that,
giving multiple access at the same time. A database also allows users to store more information
in an organized way. A text file would get cluttered very easily.
For example, we used a simple database though Firebase in the React module when building the Bloc Chat application.

 >Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

 A:

 SQL is a declarative programming language instead of a procedural programming language. In other words,
 we can "describe" what we want instead of "defining" what we want. We don't have to code the logic behind
 the database. We just say, "hey, get us this thing" instead of programming HOW it should get us this thing.

 >In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

 A:

 A database is organized like a table, much like you would organize data in Microsoft excel.
 The table is all of your data. It is made up of columns (the name of the column describes
 the data that column is holding) and rows. When the rows intersect a column, that creates
 a cell, which is where information is stored.

 >Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

 A:

 Table - The entirety of your data.

 Column - The label of what data is stored.

 Row - A SINGLE group of data.

 Value - The data that is stored.

 >List three data types that can be used in a table.

 1. String

 2. Integer

 3. Float

 >Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

    >SELECT date, amount
     FROM payments;

A:

Give me the date and amount of all my payments.

    >SELECT amount
     FROM payments
     WHERE amount > 500;

A: Give me the amount of all my purchases that are greater than 500.

    >SELECT *
     FROM payments
     WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';

A: Give me all the payments made by Mega Foods.

>Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

>The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.

A:

SELECT email, signup
FROM users
WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data';

>The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.

A:

SELECT userid
FROM users
WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

>All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

A:

SELECT *
FROM users
WHERE userid = 4;
